Hi, everyone.
Today, we'll be looking at Seaborn,
a Python visualization
library based on matplotlib.
Seaborn is really just
a wraparound matplotlib.
It adds styles to make default data
visualizations much more visually
appealing and makes creation of specific
types of complicated plots much simpler.
To get us started,
I've imported seaborn as sns.
Now, let's set the seed for
the random number generator.
Which lets us reproduce the data.
Next, let's make a panda series
v1 that's 1000 numbers drawn
from a normal distribution with a mean
of 0, and a standard deviation of 10.
Let's also make a second pandas series,
v2, which is 2 times v1,
plus 1,000 numbers drawn from a normal
distribution with a mean of 60 and
standard deviation of 15.
Now let's see what the histograms of these
two variables look like when we plot
them side by side.
We can set alpha equal to 0.7 so
the histograms don't cover one another up.
For the bin parameter,
instead of integer denoting the number
of bins we want we can also pass in
a specific sequence using np.arange to
specify the specific bins we want to use.
This is useful for the one when we want
to plot two histograms in the same figure
to make sure the bin sizes
are equivalent for both histograms.
We also add labels so
we can see which histogram belongs
to which variable using a legend.
Looking at the histograms we can quickly
see that v1 has a lower mean than v2,
and that v2 has a larger spread than v1.
Even though up to this point
we've only used matplotlib for
plotting we see that even importing
Seaborn has changed the aesthetics of
the plot to a different style
from the matplotlib default.
Let's visualize these histograms again but
in a different way.
First, let's pass in both of
the series v1 and v2 in a list.
And set the histtype to barstacked.
Setting normed to True will normalize the
histogram to form a probability density.
Next, let's create a variable v3,
which is the combination of v1 and v2.
We'll use v3 to plot a kernel density
estimate plot over the stacked histogram.
The kernel density estimation plot
estimates the probability density
function of the variable v3.
Plotting it on top of
the stacked histograms of v1 and
v2 allows us to see the relationship
between these two visualizations.
Seaborn provides a convenient function for
these type of plots sns.distplot.
Let's take a look at how it works.
We can pass in the variable we want to
visualize along with keyword arguments for
each of the individual
components of the plot.
Let's set the histogram color to teal and
the KDE color to navy.
Now let's look at an example of one of
the types of complex plots that Seborn
provides a convenient interface for,
the joint plot.
The jointplot creates a scatterplot
along the histograms for
each individual variable on each axis.
You've actually seen jointplots in module
two and created them manually yourself.
To create a jointplot,
we just type sns.jointplot and
pass in the two series, v1 and v2.
Setting alpha to 0.4 will help with
visualizing overlapping points.
The jointplot allows us to visualize
the distribution of the two variables
individually.
As well as relationships
between the variables.
Using jointplot we can see that v1 and
v2 appear to be normally distributed
variables that are positively correlated.
Because Seaborn uses matplotlib we can
tweak the plots using Matplotlib's tools.
Some of the plotting functions in
Seaborn return a matplotlib axis object.
While others operate on
an entire figure and
produce plots with several panels,
returning a Seaborn grid object.
In both cases, matplotlib can be
used to further tweak the plots.
For example, sns.jointplot
returns a Seaborn grid object.
From this we can plot a map plot axis
subplot object using grid.x joint.
Then, we can set the aspect ratio to
be equal, using set_aspect equal.
Hexbin plots are the bivariate
counterpart to histograms.
Hexbin plots show the number of
observations that fall within
hexagonal bins.
Sns joint plot includes the hex bin style
we can use by passing in
hex to the kind parameter.
The hexbin style of plot works well
with relatively large data sets.
Another good option for visualizing
the distribution of data sets is kernel
density estimations or KDE plots.
You can think of two dimensional KDE plots
as the continuous version of the hexbin
jointplot.
First, let's tell Seaborn
to use a different
style using sns.set_style('white').
All of the following charts will
have the gray grid turned off.
Now we'll create a joint plot just
like before, except this time,
let's set the kind to kde.
Finally, let's space to 0,
which will plot the marginal distributions
directly on the border
of the scatter plot.
We can see that Seaborn has some
built-in options for easy customization.
And provides us with easy to create and
beautiful plots for
exploring the distributions of your data.
For the last part of this tutorial,
let's load in the iris dataset,
to see how Seaborn handles
visualizations of categorical data.
Similar to pandas,
Seaborn has a built in function
that creates a scatterplot matrix.
We pass in the iris data of frame.
Tell it to map name to different
colors using the hue parameter.
And tell it to use a kde
along the diagonals instead
of the default histograms.
Looking at the pair plot, it's clear
there are some clusters in the data set.
It looks like peddle length and
peddle width are good options for
separating the observations,
whereas width is not a strong separator.
Using pair plot to look at your data
frame can be a very useful tool
in exploratory data analysis.
One final plot I'd like to show
you is called the violin plot.
You can think of a violin plot as a more
informative version of a box plot.
To demonstrate, let's plot a violin
plot next to a swarm plot,
which you can think of as a scatter
plot for categorical data.
First let's create a new figure and
a subplot.
Next, we'll create the swarmplot,
passing in Name and
PetalLength, and the data,
which is the iris data frame.
For the next subplot, we'll create
the violinplot, again passing in Name,
PetalLength and the iris data frame.
Looking at the swarmplot,
each species has its own column and
each observation's petal length is shown.
With more common values appearing
as the wide parts of the cluster,
much like a histogram.
The violinplot is like box plot with
a rotated kernel density estimation
on each side.
Violin plots convey more
information than box plots and
are able to show particular
phenomena within the distribution
that box plots are unable to
convey such as multi modality.
Seaborn is a library that not only
adds new styles and visual aspects.
But also introduces new functionality such
as joint plots, scatter matrix plots, and
violin plots.
Seaborn is being actively developed,
and is easy to install,
which makes it an indispensible
part of a data scientist's toolkit.
But keep in mind, this is functionality
built on top of matplotlib, and
these are largely matplotlib
artists being used.
So, if you have any ideas for
a new statistical visualization, or
you've read about one in a publication or
journal.
You should have the ability to create
your own visualization toolkits.
That's it for Seaborn tutorial,
thanks for watching, happy plotting.